nits (#110)
avalanche-foundation/ACPs: ACPs/75-acceptance-proofs/README.md

## Motivation

> Subnets are able to prove arbitrary events using warp messaging, but native support for proving block acceptance at the protocol layer enables more utility. One use case for acceptance proofs is to provide stronger fault isolation guarantees from the primary network to subnets.

Reviewer: (No change necessary) It would be helpful to enumerate all of the intended use cases instead of just fault isolation. As it's currently phrased, this begs the question, what other use cases are there?

> Subnets are able to prove arbitrary events using warp messaging but a common pattern that would be useful to support natively would be proving block acceptance to other subnets. One example use case for acceptance proofs is to provide stronger fault isolation guarantees from the primary network to subnets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subnets are able to prove arbitrary events using warp messaging but a common pattern that would be useful to natively support would be proving block acceptance to other subnets. One example use case for acceptance proofs is to provide stronger fault isolation guarantees from the primary network to subnets.
```

> Subnets are able to prove arbitrary events using warp messaging but a common pattern that would be useful to support natively would be proving block acceptance to other subnets. One example use case for acceptance proofs is to provide stronger fault isolation guarantees from the primary network to subnets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Subnets are able to prove arbitrary events using warp messaging, but native support for proving block acceptance to other subnets could add more utility. One use case is to provide stronger fault isolation guarantees from the primary network to subnets.
```

> Subnets use the [ProposerVM](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/blob/416fbdf1f783c40f21e7009a9f06d192e69ba9b5/vms/proposervm/README.md) to implement soft leader election for block proposal. The ProposerVM determines the block producer schedule from a randomly shuffled validator set at a specified P-Chain block height. Validators are therefore required to have the P-Chain block referenced in a block's header to verify the block producer against the expected block producer schedule. If a block's header specifies a P-Chain height that has not been accepted yet, the block is treated as invalid. If a block referencing an unknown P-Chain height was produced virtuously, it is expected that the validator will eventually discover the block as its P-Chain height advances and accept the block.

Reviewer 2: 👍

> If many validators disagree about the current tip of the P-Chain, it can lead to a liveness concern on the subnet where block production entirely stalls. In practice, this almost never occurs because nodes produce blocks with a lagging P-Chain height because it’s likely that most nodes will have accepted a sufficiently stale block. This however, relies on an assumption that validators are constantly making progress in consensus on the P-Chain to prevent the subnet from stalling. This leaves an open concern where the P-Chain stalling on a node would prevent it from verifying any blocks, leading to a subnet unable to produce blocks if many validators stalled at different P-Chain heights.

Reviewer: It looks like this change is dropping the code changes for integrating this into the ProposerVM, but using it in the ProposerVM is still the core motivation listed in the ACP.

Could the motivation be rephrased to enumerate the other benefits and add a note here that explicitly calls out what is left to future work to build on this?

If we wanted to, we could probably separate the block signing requests from aggregating the signatures at the p2p layer to generate a proof.

Reviewer 4: I think it was decided that we don't need to modify the proposervm block header at all to provide these properties.

We do, however, need to modify the proposervm block header validity rules.

Author: Added validity rules

> If many validators disagree about the current tip of the P-Chain, it can lead to a liveness concern on the subnet where block production entirely stalls. In practice, this almost never occurs because nodes produce blocks with a lagging P-Chain height because it’s likely that most nodes will have accepted a sufficiently stale block. This however, relies on an assumption that validators are constantly making progress in consensus on the P-Chain to prevent the subnet from stalling. This leaves an open concern where the P-Chain stalling on a node would prevent it from verifying any blocks, leading to a subnet unable to produce blocks if many validators stalled at different P-Chain heights.

Reviewer 2: 👍

---

> We introduce "acceptance proofs", so that a peer can verify any block accepted by consensus. In the aforementioned use-case, if a P-Chain block is unknown by a peer, it can request the block and proof at the provided height from a peer. If a block's proof is valid, the block can be executed to advance the local P-Chain and verify the proposed subnet block. Peers can request blocks from any peer without requiring consensus locally or communication with a validator. This has the added benefit of reducing the number of required connections and p2p message load served by P-Chain validators.

Reviewer 2: 👍

> We introduce "acceptance proofs", so that a peer can verify any block accepted by consensus. In the aforementioned use-case if a P-Chain block is unknown by a peer, it can request the block and corresponding proof at the provided height from a peer. If a block's proof is valid, the block can be executed to advance the local P-Chain and verify the proposed subnet block. Peers can request blocks from any peer without requiring consensus locally or communication with a validator. This has the added benefit of reducing the number of required connections and p2p message load served by P-Chain validators.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We introduce "acceptance proofs", so that a peer can verify any block accepted by consensus. In the aforementioned use-case, if a P-Chain block is unknown by a peer, it can request the block and corresponding proof at the provided height from a peer. If a block's proof is valid, the block can be executed to advance the local P-Chain and verify the proposed subnet block. Peers can request blocks from any peer without requiring consensus locally or communication with a validator. This has the added benefit of reducing the number of required connections and p2p message load served by P-Chain validators.
```

Author: Github won't let me commit this suggestion so manually applying the diff...

Note: The following is pseudocode.

### ProposerVM

The block header will include a proof-of-acceptance of the parent block which is
a [Warp signature](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/blob/master/vms/platformvm/warp/README.md#awm-serialization) of the parent block id.

```diff
type BlockHeader struct {
    PChainHeight    uint64
    Timestamp       time.Time
    Proposer        ids.NodeID
+   AcceptanceProof warp.BitSetSignature
  }
```

### P2P

> #### Bootstrap

Author: I feel like this can be decoupled from this ACP (supporting bootstrapping using proofs)

Note: The following is pseudocode.

### P2P

#### Aggregation

```diff
+ message GetAcceptanceSignatureRequest {
+   bytes chain_id = 1;
+   bytes block_id = 2;
+   uint32 request_id = 3;
+ }
```

The `GetAcceptanceSignatureRequest` message is sent to a peer to request their signature for a given block id.

```diff
+ message GetAcceptanceSignatureResponse {
+   bytes chain_id = 1;
+   bytes bls_signature = 2;
+   uint32 request_id = 3;
+ }

> ```

Reviewer 4: This is supper nit-y but all of our other requests have:
```
   bytes chain_id = 1;
   uint32 request_id = 2;
   ...
```

#### Gossip
```diff
+ message GetAcceptanceProofRequest {
+   bytes chain_id = 1;

> +   bytes block_id = 2;

Reviewer 4: As talked about offline, we should be requesting the proof by `height` not by `block_id`.
